# Potholes Detection Using YOLOv8 Algorithm
<p>The purpose of this project is to develop a pothole identification system that could detect potholes both during the day and at night. This model was created using the YOLO, or You Only Look Once, method for real-time object recognition. The pothole is detected by a pre- trained model using YOLOv8. Videos as well as images are collected in real time and processed using the YOLOv8 computational image processing technology. This can help to exercise caution when travelling on roads having potholes, which improves public safety and allows the responsible authorities to address the potholes more quickly.</p> 
<p>Potholes are important when it comes to road safety. about a period of time in India, there have been about 9300 deaths along with 25000 injuries only as a result of potholes, not taking into account other factors that caused accidents into account. When driving for lengthy periods of time while under stress or strain, the driver loses attention both during the day and at night. The pothole detecting system can be used to avoid accidents from occurring. When YOLO first debuted, It was the first model to combine categorization of objects and restricted space prediction under a single end- to-end distinguishable network. It was created and is maintained under the Darknet framework. YOLOv8 is the initial YOLO model created using the PyTorch framework, and it is a lot simpler and lighter to use. When active, this system comprises of a camera that extracts pictures from live camera recordings in order to detect potholes. As with real-time object detection systems, it will show potholes in real-time emphasize them with boxes. This technique has an accuracy of 80- 90%.</p>

